GOOD AFTERNOON
i am rohit from ssn,chennai
here to present my solution for ai assisted farming challenge

PURPOSE
To build an application that can be used by farmers throughout India to get 
accurate information on which crops to be planted. 
By using various IBM services, we can help farmers get the best yield and 
revenue from their hard-work and land. Reduce the risk of farming and bring 
it to industry 4.0 standards

SOLUTION
Automate Crop harvesting and Plantation using ML Models which can give 
accurate timings for these tasks.
Give Information on Revenue and Cost of Production for crops to farmers 
using the Dataset.
Real-Time Predictive Analysis is the next big thing in the IOT Sphere. Farmers
can collect the data and determine the optimal use of fertilizers, 
irrigation and plantation systems. They can take action in real time with IOT 
Solutions.

NOVELTY
In India, villages are small and the people are a tight knit community. 
Thus a solution has to be designed which can be used by the society as 
a whole. The solution should involve the community as a whole instead of 
individual farmers. The IOT Solutions can be integrated for each and every 
farmer in the community so that there is a collective upbringing of farmers 
and development to the community.
The solution is to integrate the sensor values of the IOT devices of all users
in the community and let the users in the community see the crops grown in 
their community. This way, users get a better idea of what crops to grow and 
how much fertilizer/manure has to be added by comparing their yield with 
their neighbors.

This IOT Device requires constant internet connection to be able to provide 
real time analysis. This might not be possible until villages in India have 
constant power and internet connection. This device can also be costly for
farmers who do not have enough land.
Thus, adding a backdoor where farmers can manually enter Soil parameters after getting
the soil tested in a nearby government soil testing facility would be a good 
feature. Thus, in the account tab in the website, farmers can manually enter 
the Soil and Climate Parameters.

PROBLEMS
As Watson Studio only allows Lite users to use up to 20 capacity unit hours of CPU time
per month, I had already exhausted the CUH in the first 3 days of testing 
and building the project. Thus I now have to improvise and output random crop 
samples in the web app as the Deployed Space does not run the model.

Watson IOT Platform Requires Cloud Foundry Deployment Space to transmit the
simulated sensor values to the Cloud. As Cloud Foundry is not Available to 
Lite Users.
Thus, random numbers were generated in python script to simulate the IOT 
Sensor Values. As Cloud Foundry was also not working, I had to use django 
instead of Node Red to launch the website.


FUTURE SCOPE
Apart from the Crop Sense Device, the IOT Sphere can be improved vastly. 
Solutions such as
Automated Manure/Fertilizer Dispenser using Sprinklers as Hardware when the soil
nutrient levels are low.
Pest/Disease Detection using Cameras and Surveillance systems for crops so 
that farmers can be alerted on the presence of rodents/pests on their farms. 
This way, the damage caused by pests/diseases can be prevented before it 
happens.

THANK YOU
This hackathon was a wonderful experience and i learnt a lot and got guidance 
from having one on one doubt clearing with mentors.
thank you for giving me this oppurtunity to present.